All right, so let's talk about what I
really think about my conversation with
Adam Moseri, the head of Instagram. If
you're watching this episode, I'm going
to assume that you have already listened
to my interview. If you haven't, it's
been out for a few weeks. And I want to
start by saying thank you so much to
everyone who has watched, who has
commented, who has hyped it up, who has
shared, who has done their own reaction
video, who has done their own critique
or breakdown of the interview. I have
really been so overjoyed with the
response y'all have given. So, thank you
so much for that. If you haven't watched
it, you can go ahead and watch the full
conversation. and we'll make sure to
link it up down in the show notes below
this episode. But today, I wanted to
give you my own feedback, my own
thoughts, my own reaction and response
to some of the things we talked about
and some of the things we didn't talk
about. This episode here is going to be
broken down into three main parts. The
first part is going to be kind of your
typical reaction style video where we
will watch little tiny clips from the
interview and then I will give my
thoughts or response. The second part of
this episode is going to be me
responding to some of your most common
questions, some of the most upvoted or
most liked comments on the YouTube video
and on the posts that I've been making
on my Instagram about the interview. And
then we're going to end today's episode
with kind of my overall thoughts and my
direction of what we should do next and
where we should head from here. And
because I am a podcaster slash YouTuber,
I am legally obligated to say the
following thing, which is please
subscribe to this channel. According to
our most recent insights, about 87% of
our viewers are not subscribed to the
channel. Here on this channel, every
single week I release a new episode
about the latest trends, changes,
algorithm updates, and new features, not
just for Instagram, but for all social
media, so that you can build a brand or
business online. It's my job to help you
grow and give you the no BS advice to
help you grow and make more money in
less time. But with all that being said,
let's skip over the first 10 minutes or
so of the interview where we were kind
of, you know, feeling each other out. I
did have to butter him up a little bit
to make sure that I was on his good side
so that he would, you know, loosen up
and maybe spill some of the tea later in
the interview. But let's jump to the 9
minute and 52 second of our interview
where I asked him about DM automation.
There's been a lot of mixed messaging,
no pun intended, around DMs recently and
specifically DM automation. Uh so I'd
love if you could clear the air about DM
automation through approved partners
obviously and whether that's allowed on
Instagram or you know specifically the
whole uh if you comment this word,
you'll receive this automated message.
Oh, interesting. So I would say this is
the one question that I wished I had
asked differently. It was a question
that I really wanted to make sure I
asked because DM automation is an
absolutely essential tool for growing a
business on Instagram. Not to get too
lost in the sauce here, but the mistake
that a lot of people make on Instagram
when they're going to sell or promote
something is they say, "Go click the
link in my bio." Well, let's think about
what happens when you say that. You're
telling people to abandon your post, to
leave it alone, to not engage with your
post, and to go do something else. And
so of course they're not going to engage
with your post. And when they do not
engage with your post, that's a signal
to the algorithm that it's not a very
good post. And then your post is shown
to less people. That was pretty much our
only option up until about 5 years ago
when DM automation became available on
Instagram. And essentially DM automation
is that thing, if you follow me, you
know what it is. You've seen me do it
where a creator will say, "Comment blank
and I will send you blank. comment code
and I will send you the 20% off discount
code. Comment shop and I will send you
the link to my Amazon shopping cart or
whatever. And this is something that is
allowed on Instagram through approved
partners or at least it has been for the
last few years up until about April or
May 2024 when the official@creators
Instagram account made a post talking
about engagement bait, which is
something that has always been not
allowed on Instagram. But in said post
they gave an example of something that
might be considered engagement bait. And
that example was comment blank and you
will receive blank. And of course this
caused like a mass hysteria in the
industry. I did a series of reactionary
posts to that news that also went viral
and it basically came out that that was
just not the best choice of words for an
example. The creator who made that video
was speaking on what they thought was an
example of engagement bait. But
according to an official statement from
at creators, that was a mistake and you
can use DM automation. They have even
specifically said that on their official
outlets. But then fast forward to 2025,
shortly before this conversation with
Adam Moseri. Again, it was in the news,
at least within my little niche
community of social media coaches, there
were some people going viral saying Meta
says that you can't do DM automation
anymore. And so I just wanted to ask him
directly. And it seemed like in my
initial asking of the question, just
from like reading his face and body
language, it was making sense. And then
when I gave him that example, which I
thought would really, you know, put the
nail in the coffin and make sure that we
were totally on the same page, the
example that I gave him kind of threw
him a curveball. And then he started
talking about, you know, getting hacked
and giving up your password. But I can
confirm from him, from what I can
understand in his response and from my
numerous conversations with other
highranking officials so to speak at
Meta and Instagram, using direct message
automation through an approved partner
is allowed and approved on Instagram.
All right, let's watch another clip.
Well, next few months and few years. Um,
it's a long road. Um, but I do think
that could also be really good one for
people who are looking for things. You
can imagine whatever you use Instagram
for, it'd be great to be able to find
that more easily, but also for creators
because it should allow content to
resurface so that you don't kind of get
all the value in those first 24 or 48
hours. You know, in one of his very
first answers, he said that one of the
top three priorities for Instagram in
2025 and moving into the future is that
they want to be the best platform for
creators. and one of their explicit
priorities is that they want to help
small creators break out. And there's
been some push back about this and we're
going to talk about some of the comments
and criticisms of him in this interview
later, but I think that this is one of
the components that is really lacking. I
think that Instagram can be a massive
player in the discoverability of
content. YouTube and Tik Tok really
excel in this category. If I want to
find a specific video, a specific trend,
a specific audio or creator, I know that
if I go to YouTube or Tik Tok, I'll
probably be able to find it. The thing
I'm searching for and the videos or the
answers that it provides me are usually
pretty much in alignment. But I was glad
to hear him say in this conversation
that Instagram is not that way.
Instagram's search, Instagram's SEO is
not great. I would even say that in some
areas and in some cases it kind of
sucks. So, I'm glad to hear that they
are working to improve it and that there
are already things that are being rolled
out to improve the searchability and
discoverability on Instagram. And going
back to my original point and his
original point about Instagram being the
best platform for creators, I think this
is a huge part of it because if your
content can be easily resurfaced in
search, that means you can get views
months or even years after your content
was originally posted. It doesn't mean
for someone like myself, you have to
constantly be reposting the same tips
over and over again, hoping that people
see them and knowing that no one's going
to see it after a few days. Instead, if
the searchability on Instagram is really
improved, then theoretically, my content
from years ago could still show up in
search results today, thus getting me
views and thus eliminating the need for
me to constantly be talking about the
same topics over and over again. All
right, with that being said, let's talk
about how SEO and discoverability
currently works on Instagram because he
kind of quickly said something that I
think a lot of people are going to kind
of gloss over and not notice, but I
think it's absolutely huge for thinking
about what informs the algorithm. Right
now, it's disproportionately looking at
the caption relative to the video,
relative to the audio, relative to the
comments in that order. But that's going
to change because as we get better at
understanding all the pieces, we'll
integrate them. All right. So, this
right here is the answer to why are
hashtags no longer important. This is
what I've been saying for the last four
or 5 years. The algorithm, basically the
AI, the artificial intelligence, the
robot brain who figures out what your
posts are about, has been improving. It
has been being trained on our data since
the earliest days of Instagram. So, it's
got billions upon billions of posts that
it is able to analyze. And with each
post that it analyzed, it gets a little
bit better. And so back in 2016, the
algorithm still needed us common folk,
us creators, to say # pizza in order for
it to know that this was a picture of a
pizza. Now, it can scan the photo or the
video. It can read your caption. It can
look at the comments. It can hear or
transcribe the audio to figure out that
this is a photo or a video of pizza. It
doesn't need us to tell it that it's a
photo or a video of pizza nowadays. And
that's really why hashtags are being
phased out because if the algorithm can
determine what your content is, then a
we have to do less work to tell it,
right? Like the average person can use
Instagram easier without having to think
about, oh yeah, I have to add these
certain amount of hashtags and I have to
tell the algorithm. No, the algorithm
can determine for itself what your photo
or video is about. But there's also an
added layer on top of that, which is
really why people are so upset that
hashtags are less effective now, is that
hashtags from day one were never
something that was supposed to be
effective. Hashtags since day one were
supposed to be something that was used
by people, by creators, by business
owners posting on Instagram to
categorize our content. But of course,
as us marketers do, as you know, the
people in my profession, and hey, I'm
part of the problem here. One of my
first ever courses in the business world
was called help with hashtags. And I
taught people how to get the most reach
from their hashtags, right? What we do,
what we always do is we figure out how
to get the most possible juice from the
squeeze, so to speak. We figured out
very early on how you could use hashtags
to strategically categorize your
content, put it in different buckets,
and thus reach more people. Well,
Instagram doesn't want us to be able to
trick the algorithm because then people
are seeing content that us marketers
want them to see and not necessarily the
content that they would be most engaged
with or that they, the consumer, would
most want to see. And so that's really
the biggest reason that hashtags are
less effective in 2025 than they were in
2015. Also, from his answer, I want you
to take a mental note of those four
things. And he listed them in order. He
said, number one, we look at your
caption. So, if you can have a caption
that organically includes words that
describe your post, awesome. Now, I did
say organically. I don't think it's wise
to at the bottom of your caption just
type a bunch of keywords. Like, people
used to type a bunch of hashtags at the
bottom of their caption. Nowadays, some
people are just type in a bunch of
keywords at the bottom of their caption.
Don't do that. Organically, use those
words in sentences and in paragraphs
that describe your post. But also,
besides just the caption, they also
analyze the photo and or video. They
analyze the audio or the transcription
of said audio and now they're starting
to look much more heavily at the
comments and what are people talking
about below your posts. So yes,
everything matters and that is why
hashtags matter so much less. Now, of
course, the reason that people care so
much about hashtags is that when used
effectively a decade ago, hashtags would
help you get more views. And nowadays,
most views are down. Most people are
getting less reach. Most people are
having a more difficult time getting the
same amount of views that they used to
in the past. Everyone wants to go viral.
Everyone wants more views. And I think
this next little segment was a juicy
thing, something that he's talked about
before. And so we didn't spend a lot of
time on it. And I want to tell you
that's why I didn't ask him, "How do you
go viral on Instagram? How do you get
more views on Instagram?" He has said it
very plainly. I wanted to kind of unpack
the different elements, but I'll play
the clip and then we can talk more about
it. You've talked about kind of the
three metrics that are best or that you
would recommend focusing on the most for
increasing reach. What do you would tell
people when they ask you what about
shares? Yeah, because I think shares at
least algorithmically speaking, of
course, they're helpful, but it's a
human sending a post to another human.
So, even if the algorithm was optimized
for saves, a share would still be the
way to reach another human being. Yeah.
Okay. So again, I have talked about this
numerous times here on Build Your Tribe
over the last year or so, and he has
said this himself on numerous of his own
feed posts and his own ask me anything
stories that he posts every Friday. The
three best ways to get more views on
Instagram in reverse order are number
three, watch time, number two, likes,
and number one, shares. And like I just
said in our conversation, shares make
sense because when one human sends a
video to another human, that video has
just doubled its views. And the
algorithm doesn't have to do so much
work now to figure out who would be
interested in this post because my wife
sent me the video. The algorithm doesn't
have to think, right? She has determined
that I would be interested in this post.
And that's a much better predictor than
the algorithm. So in short, if you want
more views, if you want to go viral,
increase the amount of time that people
are spending with your posts, which to
say it another way, make your posts more
engaging. Number two, increase the
amount of likes that you are getting on
your post. Again, make better quality
content that people are actually going
to engage with. And number three, best
of all, make the kinds of content that
is shareworthy, which is like the
pinnacle of engagement. It's not just me
engaging with it myself, but it's
bringing other people to also engage
with it. That's the the pinnacle of
engagement. That's the pinnacle of a
captivating post. Now, I could spend the
next hour giving you a master class on
how to create shareworthy content. We
have done previous episodes in the past.
So, I'm just going to link one of those
up down in the show notes. If you're
watching on YouTube, I'll put it up here
somewhere so that you can click on and
watch that episode about shareworthy
content. But if you can unlock that not
so secret door, that's how you're going
to get more views on a consistent basis
on Instagram. Now, let's talk about
everyone's favorite topic on Instagram,
shadow banning. It's possible if you
write really aggressive content, there
might be nothing wrong with that. Maybe
you are advocating for a cause and
you're mad and you have a right to be.
That's okay. Um, but it might get caught
up in, oh, this isn't harassment, but
it's borderline. It's aggressive and we
won't recommend it. This is one where
people definitely get heated and there's
definitely more opinions flying around
when it comes to shadowbanning. I would
say that the majority of people who
believe they are shadowbanned are not. I
also think that there are some people
that are shadowbanned. More people than
probably Adam would admit to. But I
don't think that 99% of people watching
today's episode have ever been
shadowbanned. But I don't want to
invalidate your experiences and your
feelings because it can absolutely feel
that way. And I do think it was somewhat
enlightening to hear him say that yes,
there are things that might not
explicitly go against our guidelines,
but they're kind of in this gray area,
right? Like it's a a woman posting
pictures in like a skimpy little bikini.
It's not nudity, but it's also something
that's kind of in this gray area where
they don't want to just be recommending
that or it's someone who they're not
using like curse words and offensive
language and whatever. or they're not
bullying or harassing, but they're using
some aggressive language. And so, again,
they're kind of in this gray area. And
so, Instagram doesn't want to recommend
anyone who's in this gray area because
then it's their fault if you're
offended. It's Instagram's fault. If you
are upset or if you don't like seeing
this post or if you know it turns you
away from Instagram, it's their fault
for showing you the gray area. They have
basically said that anything that's, you
know, in this gray area or literally
banned on Instagram, we're not going to
recommend it. and we're only going to
recommend the stuff that is definitely,
you know, above the board, so to speak,
or definitely meets community
guidelines. But I need to be real with
y'all right now. No matter what your
political stance is, no matter where you
fall on the political spectrum, whether
you are farthest right or the farthest
left person, I'm going to be honest with
you because I get thousands of direct
messages every single day. And a lot of
those direct messages are from people on
opposite ends of the political spectrum
going off on me as if I'm the head of
Instagram. I'm not, by the way, that's
why I had the interview with him. But
going off on me or or just sometimes
venting or ranting that they are
shadowbanned, that Instagram does not
favor their kind of content, that their
kind of posts, uh, their political views
specifically are being suppressed and
they can't talk about it. And yes, I do
literally mean both sides. I don't care
who you voted for. I don't care what you
believe. I get messages, hundreds of
them on a daily basis from people who
are on opposands of the spectrum who are
saying that the other end of the
spectrum is being promoted and allowed
and that their end of the spectrum is
absolutely not allowed and it's being
shadowbanned on Instagram. And again, I
tell you that not to invalidate your
feelings. I'm not trying to gaslight
you. I'm trying to tell you that, hey,
you might not realize it, but both ends
of the political spectrum, anyone who
is, as he said, extreme or aggressive or
anyone who's kind of in a gray area and
they're not definitely meeting community
guidelines, they will not be
recommended. And with recommendations
being such a huge part of our reach,
right, earlier in this interview, I
asked him about how there's been a
massive increase in the amount of uh
nonfollower or disconnected reach
happening these days. With that number
being so high and such a large
percentage of where our views are coming
from, if you are no longer recommendable
or that specific post is deemed
aggressive and so it is not
recommendable, you can realistically
expect to get 30 40 50 60% less views
because of it. So again, it's not
technically a shadow ban. It does feel
like a shadow ban. I'm not trying to
invalidate you, but pretty much everyone
on both sides of the spectrum deal with
it. Now look, sometimes we make mistakes
and yes, they make a ton of mistakes.
According to some rough estimates, there
are almost a billion posts a day to the
feed on Instagram. The most recent study
that I've seen estimates that about
857 million posts are made per day to
just the feed. That doesn't include
stories. And so, yeah, the algorithm is
going to make mistakes. The algorithm is
going to flag content that shouldn't be
flagged. The algorithm is going to, you
know, mark a comment as spam even though
it's like a heartfelt, very kind
comment. That sort of stuff happens all
the time. It's because the algorithm is
just really flawed and imperfect. And
not to go off on a tangent here, and I
think it's because Mark Zuckerberg, the
founder and still the head of Meta/F,
who also owns Instagram, one of his
famous quotes and mottos in life, is
move fast, break things. And so if
they're updating the algorithm every
day, we know they're moving fast. And so
that means the algorithm is breaking in
little bits every day as well. in terms
of consumption and like the interaction
component. If I'm a creator and I create
about this one niche topic, uh, rock
climbing, but I only consume content or
primarily consume content relating to a
completely different topic like cake
baking. Do those two things affect each
other at all? Do they interact with each
other or not necessarily? Not
necessarily. What about activity
specifically around the time of posting?
So, I have a post I'm going to make at
10:00 a.m. And so, from 9:45 till 10:00
a.m. I'm active and I'm responding to
stories and I'm engaging. And then I
make the post and I'm staying active.
Does the algorithm reward me for that
activity? Not directly. Indirectly, it
could happen, right? cuz if you're on
there a bunch for me personally of every
question that he answered in this
conversation, this was the one that was
one of the most surprising because I was
a firm believer, not necessarily that,
you know, if you engaged with more
people then the algorithm automatically
boosted your post, but I did believe
that if you were more active, there
would be some algorithmic benefits to
that. And it was interesting to hear him
talk about basically posting and
ghosting. And this is something that
I've been saying for the last few years.
More of a mentality than an algorithm
thing. Let me explain. I have been
teaching that it is better to post and
ghost than to not post at all. To say it
in other words, I would rather have you
post and then forget about Instagram,
like go live your life, go run your
business, whatever, than not post at all
in that day. Basically, I would rather
have you post and ghost than ghost and
ghost. Like not post at all. But it was
interesting to hear him say that no, who
you follow and who you engage with has
no real impact on who's going to follow
you and who's going to see your post.
That was also personally relieving for
me because if you look at my Instagram
feed all winter long, it's nothing but
snowboarding videos and edits of like
cool dope powder videos from people
snowboarding. Um, and so if that
affected who was seeing my posts, well
then I would be in a world of hurt
because my ideal audience has very
little uh care about snowboarding. So I
was happy to hear that. I was also happy
to hear that no, you know, being engaged
before posting isn't going to help you
algorithmically. Of course, if I comment
on Sue Smith's post uh right before I
post and then she responds to it and
then she's like, "Oh, hey, I wonder what
he's up to now." and then she checks out
my page, then human-wise, audience-wise,
I might be more likely to get a little
bit more reach or engagement. Uh, but it
was, I think, helpful to hear that no,
the algorithm doesn't care. With that
being said, let's move on to one of the
most disappointing responses and one
that he said he was disappointed in
himself for. First, I want to talk about
live. Is there any new exciting
features, anything that you can share
about changes coming to live in 2025?
No. No. Um, wish I had something for you
on that. And I feel really disappointed
in myself when you asked that question.
Yeah, I'm I'm sorry for asking. This is
one where I can flat out say I was
wrong. One of my top eight predictions
for Instagram in 2025 was that they
would make some improvements to live
shopping slash live video and live
shopping would become more utilized on
Instagram in 2025. I still think the
second part of that could happen. I
still do think that more creators could
start going live and utilizing DM
automation with live, which is really an
advanced topic that we're not going to
get into today. Um, so I do think that
that is something that could still
happen. However, it was disappointing to
hear that like they really have no
priorities or or care to improve live.
And it was surprising because Twitch has
really increased in popularity over the
last few years. Tik Tok Live was largely
responsible for Tik Tok's success in
2024 specifically. Um, and so it was
surprising and disappointing to hear
that they have no plans for Live in
2025. Again, hopefully that changes.
Maybe that will change because of this
conversation and the fact that I asked
him about it, but uh we'll see. I was
reading a study that um at least
according to this one study, average
reach for reals, carousels, feed images,
and stories were all significantly down
last year compared to the year prior.
I'm curious. Why is that? Why? And I
know this is the number one question I
receive. Number one question I'm sure
you receive is why am I not getting the
views I feel I deserve? Yeah. I mean, I
wish I had a a great answer that would
satisfy people who aren't getting as
much reach as they feel like they
deserve. In general, reach is going up
for some people and down for other
people. It's much more of a blend. Now,
this question is one where I'm going to
disagree with him a little bit. I'm
going to agree with his reasoning or his
cause. Um, but I'm going to disagree
with his view of like the state of the
world or the state of Instagram
specifically. Um, the the study that I
was referencing in this question was a
study from Metriccool that came out in
December of 2024, so the very end of
2024 in which, and I'm reading it off my
phone right now, they looked at over
400,000 accounts and over 32 million
posts and/or stories. And what they
found is reach from feed was down by 44%
on reels. Carousel's reach was down by
58%. Feed images reach was down by 65%
and story reach was down by 47%. So
while yes, he says in general it's going
up for some people and down for some
people. Yes, that's true. There are
definitely pe people who are getting
more reach. If you look at the average
and if you kind of you know pool
everyone together as metricool kind of
did in this study views and reach are
down. So that's where I am going to
disagree with him a little bit. But I do
wholeheartedly agree with his reason
why. One thing that a lot of people
missed but it's so important to hear
from my conversation with the head of
Instagram is that he schedules pretty
much all of his posts. And if the head
of Instagram does something, it's pretty
safe to say that it's good for you to do
it as well. And that's why I have been
scheduling my posts for the last 3 or 4
years. And I can honestly say that using
Metrocool to schedule my posts has been
a complete gamecher in terms of staying
consistent on Instagram because then I
don't have to wake up every single day
and remember to press post and have this
anxietyfilled morning where I'm creating
a post and frantically posting it.
Instead, I have it scheduled days or
weeks or sometimes even months in
advance on Metricool. Plus, Metrical has
some really useful advanced features
that allow me to look at the stats on my
past posts, easily reuse them or upcycle
them, as we call it here at Build Your
Tribe. And it truly, like I said, has
been an absolute gamecher for my
consistency and my growth on Instagram.
Metricool is the scheduling app that I
recommend. And while you can use it for
free, there are some really helpful pro
features that just take your Instagram
experience up a notch. And you can
actually try those out for free for a
month as well if you use the code Brock.
That's B O C. We'll put the link down in
the description below today's podcast.
Just don't forget to use code Brock at
checkout so you can get the pro features
of Metracool for free for a month.
Anyways, back to the episode. And this
is the unfortunate reality of the
current state of Instagram. I believe
that we are in an Instagram recession
and more broadly we are in a social
media recession that is caused by
inflation. Now I'm not getting political
and when I say inflation I am not
talking about the cost of eggs. I'm
talking about the supply demand
imbalance that has caused so many of us
to be getting so many fewer views. It is
basic economics. It is supply demand.
First let's talk about supply. We would
all agree that there are more people
creating content in 2025 than there were
in 2019 or even 2021, right? Think about
how many people have left their jobs.
Think about how many people have become
entrepreneurs and content creators and
have tried to start their own small
business. Think about how many people
have added a second form of income.
Maybe they haven't left their job.
They're still working a 9 to5, but they
have a side hustle. I know that so many
of you who subscribe to this show are in
this category. Five, six, seven years
ago, you were not creating content and
now you are. So that's the first layer
of supply is we just have more people
creating content. But also the average
amount that the creators are posting and
when I say creators again, I mean
business owners, small business owners,
anyone who's who's got a goal with the
platform. They're not just using it to
passively consume, but they're actually
making something, posting something,
sharing something. Those people are
sharing more today than they were a few
years ago. And we don't have to get into
all of the reasons why and all the
different factors that have increased
our average posting frequency, but not
only do we have more people posting than
before, the more people are also posting
more than before. So that's way more
supply than in the past. And demand,
like he said, hasn't necessarily
increased. If you look at the average
time spent on Instagram, the graph has
been pretty much the same since 2021. It
spiked in 2020 as so many of us were on
lockdown in our homes and just scrolling
on our phones all day. And then it kind
of went back down in 2021 as people
started to get out into the world again
and it's remained pretty much flat since
then. So the demand hasn't necessarily
increased. If anything, it's decreased
in the last few years. And so what all
of this means is that social media is
getting more competitive. This is true
on Tik Tok. This is true on YouTube.
This is true on every single social
network. And I believe unfortunately
more than ever this is true on
Instagram. Again, and I mentioned this a
moment ago, the most recent estimate is
that there are about
857 million posts made per day to just
the feed, not stories, but 857 million
feed posts made per day on Instagram in
April of 2025. Compare that to YouTube.
On YouTube, the low-end estimate is 2.6
6 million and the high-end estimate is
3.7 million. So we're comparing over
850 million posts a day on Instagram to
less than 4 million videos a day on
YouTube. And I understand that there are
differences in the content. I understand
that many of you right now are watching
a YouTube video that's 30 plus minutes
long and on Instagram you're watching
videos that are super short. Like the
length of the content is definitely not
the same. It's not equal. But that's
such a huge discrepancy in supply. it
makes sense that the platform where the
supply has increased so much more, aka
Instagram, is where we see our views
going up and down um and often times
down so much more. And again, I know
this is no fun to hear. I wish there was
uh like an easier scapegoat to point to
of, oh, it was just like the political
ad spend during the US elections in 2024
that was the cause of this. that
definitely didn't help things, but I
think that it's just ultimately supply
and demand in the current state of how
social media is operating and
specifically how Instagram is operating.
And I don't think there's necessarily
anything that they can do to really
change that without totally tanking and
killing the platform in a matter of
weeks. And with all that being said, I
have something crazy to say, which is
that I still believe that Instagram
actually is the best platform for small
business owners and content creators.
I'm not saying that YouTube sucks. I'm
not saying that Tik Tok sucks. I am big
fans of those platforms as well.
Obviously, a lot of you are watching
this on YouTube, but I still believe
that Instagram is the best. And Adam is
about to share one of the reasons why I
believe that to be true. For Instagram
specifically, if you're new to Instagram
or you haven't been using it as much, I
think it's important to understand that
it's not just about
um short form video. That's a huge part
of what we do. It's a lot of the time
it's maybe probably more than half the
time spent on the platform at this
point, but there's a lot of other things
too that can kind of be really
interesting. Um, you can do stories that
show behind the scenes of how you make
your reels. You can create a channel and
really create a deep relationship with
your most passionate followers and
message them directly. You know, there's
and the coolest stuff happens when
people connect the dots between these
things. the diverse ways that you can
create content on Instagram make it so
if you're someone who likes long- form
video, you have a place on Instagram. If
you're someone who likes photos, you
have a place on Instagram. If you're
someone who likes graphic designs, you
someone who likes FaceTime content where
you're just raw, off-the-cuff, in the-
moment talking to the camera, you have
Instagram stories. If you're someone who
likes live, there is live on Instagram.
If you're someone who likes vertical
short form video, there is reals on
Instagram. My point is simply that there
are so many different kinds of posts
that you can make on Instagram that
there's kind of a seat for everyone at
the table. I can think of so many
examples of people who never post reels
but have successful accounts. People who
only post reels and have successful
accounts. That doesn't really take place
on any other platform. Like YouTube is,
yes, they have YouTube shorts now, but
it's still primarily a horizontal long-
form video platform. Tik Tok. Yes, they
have Tik Tok stories and yes, Tik Tok
live is powerful, but Tik Tok is still
mainly a place where you go to consume
short form vertical videos. One of the
arguments that I would make in favor of
Instagram is that it has a different
kind of content to pretty much meet
every need. All right, let's watch one
final clip, and it was something that he
mentioned at the very end that again, I
think it's something that a lot of
people just kind of skipped over, and
they heard him say, "We want to be the
best platform for creators." And we
don't always necessarily see how these
things are connected, but this final
answer from him, I think really
highlights how Instagram can be one of,
if not the best platforms for creators.
The reason why I really like it might be
a little bit academic, but I think it
matters is that in general, branded
content, there's no measurement, right?
So, you don't know as an advertiser, I I
paid I paid you five grand to post this
thing. Did I get anything from it? Our
ad system has a lot of measurement.
which means that how much you are
actually helping the advertiser is going
to be much better quantified
and that is I think going to be really
good for the small creators because when
an advertiser doesn't have measurement
they don't really know they go on their
gut they go with the big name that they
know or they like sorry if you're a big
creator out there I think the biggest
creators are probably overpaid and the
smallest and small even not just the
smallest and the and and everybody else
particularly the small creators are
underpaid. Absolutely. And so and this
is growing a lot on um on Instagram the
partner ad system and so if we can grow
that more I think we can help shift more
dollars from the biggest creators to the
little ones and I think that's pretty
cool because the whole promise of
Instagram and really the internet is to
help you discover your niche interests
allow anyone to be successful. All
right. Now, we're going to get into your
comments in just a second, but by far
one of the most common complaints,
especially that I've noticed from people
commenting on the YouTube video itself
is that Instagram is not and will never
be the best platform for creators
because they don't pay creators the same
way that YouTube does. Now, I absolutely
agree. Instagram's pay-per-view sucks,
especially when you compare it to
YouTube's pay-per-view, aka AdSense on
YouTube. You make way more per view on
YouTube than you do on Instagram. But
let me say this. There is a reason why
the Paul brothers have prime. There is a
reason why Mr. Beast has Beastables.
There is a reason why almost every
single large creator on YouTube, even
the biggest YouTubers in the world, end
up starting their own business. And
that's because pay-per-view is usually
not enough to pay the bills. Even on
YouTube where they have the best CPM or
the best pay-per-view rate, you're still
usually only going to be making at most
a few hundred, maybe a few thousand
bucks a month. If you're in the top 1%
or.1% of creators, yes, you're going to
be making a substantial revenue from
YouTube, but for most of us, for 99% of
the population, you're not really going
to be paying your bills. You're not
going to be paying rent or mortgage with
pay-per-view, even on YouTube. And so,
I'm a firm believer that if you want to
actually earn an income, generate
revenue as a content creator, you have
to be somewhat of a business owner, you
have to have a product that you sell or
the other option, you have to do brand
deals. And so, I think this small
feature that he was talking about
actually highlights how Instagram can be
a better platform. Now, of course,
YouTube can come out with a similar
feature, and I'm sure there are plenty
of Google Analytics that can be easily
shared from a creator to the brand
they're partnering with, but I can say
as someone who has done over seven
figures in brand deals, when the brand
can see your analytics and maybe even
boost the post or turn your organic post
into an ad, there's just more
transparency there, you are going to get
better deals. Also in a later part of
this answer, he started to talk about
how this is going to shift the mindset
of brands who are working with creators
and allow them to realize that paying a
creator who's got 10 million followers
for a post is actually going to generate
less ROI than paying a bunch of small
creators for a post. And so this feature
that he's talking about here is truly a
way that small creators in the future
are going to be able to benefit directly
from Instagram's decisions and they're
going to be able to benefit directly on
Instagram. Again, the point I'm trying
to make here is that yes, you can earn
money through pay-per-view, and I'm not
poo pooing the people who do have
significant amounts of their revenue
generated from pay-per-view. And yes, I
recognize Instagram's pay-per-view sucks
compared to YouTube's, but with all that
being said, if you want to earn a
serious income from social media, you
need to have something you're selling.
And that either means you need to have a
business selling physical or digital
products or services, or you need to be
selling the attention that you can gain
or the audience's attention that you've
built, and that would be brand deals.
All right, so with all that being said,
my three big takeaways from this
interview before we get into your
comments were number one, nothing was
really all that jaw-dropping for me. And
I didn't necessarily expect there to be
any moments where I was like, there's no
way. But there wasn't any of that
necessarily. With that being said, I do
think it was valuable, educational, and
informative. I do think that my biggest
takeaway was that everyone just needs to
take a chill pill. Everyone needs to
take a deep breath. Everybody needs to
stop stressing out about, you know,
posting and ghosting or hashtags or
algorithm changes or all of these little
things that we've been conditioned to
think, "Oh, maybe this really matters.
Oh, maybe this is really important." No,
no, no. Take a deep breath. Can you make
higher quality content than you did in
the past? every day making your content
just a little bit better, a little bit
better quality, a little bit better,
more engaging. Or can you make more
content, a higher quantity in order to
balance out the whole supply demand
thing? Or the best of both worlds is
doing both, right? Creating better
quality and more quantity at the same
time. Basically, everybody take a chill
pill and just make better andor more
content. And number three, let me just
say it seems like he really gets it.
like he seems like such a genuine guy,
someone who is motivated by having a
positive impact on the world through the
product that is Instagram. He really
seemed like he understood our complaints
and yes, they're doing everything that
they can to try to solve those problems
while also understanding that they're a
business and they want to be able to
grow the business and and stay afloat
and stay competitive. You're welcome to
form whatever opinions you have of him
and of me and you probably already have,
but that's my two cents. Now, with all
that being said, let's get into your two
cents. And I'm going to read through
some of the comments, some of the
questions, some of the concerns, some of
the feedback that you guys have and uh
talk about it. The first topic that I
need to address and get out of the way
is something that I should have said at
the beginning of today's episode, and
it's something that I should have said
at the beginning of our interview, but
when Adam and I are talking about
creators, we aren't necessarily talking
about creatives exclusively. So, what I
mean by that is we're not just talking
about artists and filmmakers and
musicians. Uh, we're also not just
talking about people who are content
creators. When Adam and I say creators,
we are referring to essentially anyone
who is creating or posting content
trying to grow a following with a
purpose. Basically, anyone who is not
just passively watching videos and
consuming content. That would be a
creator. So, anyone with a small
business, anyone with a brand, anyone
who's trying to grow a following, grow a
community, raise awareness, raise funds,
sell something, anyone who is a
creative, a musician, an artist,
whatever. All of those people are who
this conversation was about. All of
those people are creators in the context
of this conversation. It doesn't matter
what settings your Instagram is set up
to be, if you're a business account or a
creator account. We're talking about
anyone who uses Instagram with a purpose
besides just consuming content. Cortisol
coach Christine on Instagram asked a
question that was echoed in so many
different slight variations from so many
people. And the question essentially
boils down to why do I not see my
friends posts? Like why do I not always
see the posts from the people who I've
chosen to follow? And I think part of
this was answered when Adam talked about
basically the negative feedback loop
that was people just over time posting
less on the Instagram feed. So then
people consume less on the Instagram
feed. So then people post even less so
they consume even less and it's just a
negative feedback loop where eventually
if that kept going no one would use
Instagram because there would be no
reason to interact with the feed, right?
There would just be maybe Instagram
stories. There would just be DMs in
which case we might leave Instagram
altogether. And so their solution to
that from a business perspective was to
increase the amount of recommendations
in the feed. Now here's the really
tricky bit and I can give you my own
personal example here, right? I follow
all my close friends on Instagram. I
also follow a bunch of awesome Instagram
coaches and other people who are in my
industry and I also follow a bunch of
people who are just my interests, right?
Like let's take snowboarding for
example. All winter long I'm obsessively
consuming content about snowboarding. If
one of my friends posts in the middle of
winter, the algorithm then has to
decide, do we show Brock the post about
snowboarding from someone he follows? Do
we recommend Brock the most engaging
snowboarding video, for example, that
was posted today on Instagram, or do we
show him his friend's post? And I know
you, as a fellow human being, might
think, well, of course you would want to
see your friend's post. But from the
algorithm's eyes, I chose to follow a
snowboarder and I chose to follow my
friend. I chose to follow the
snowboarder a year ago. I chose to
follow my friend 10 years ago. So maybe
I'm not even that interested anymore.
And again, it doesn't necessarily know
that that person is my friend. It
doesn't know that we went and got dinner
the other night. It just knows I
followed this person 10 years ago and I
followed this person a month ago and
this person who I followed a month ago,
I've been consuming a lot more content
like the things they've been posting
Allah snowboarding recently than I have
my friend who posted a picture of him
and his girlfriend out to dinner. And so
there's this really challenging uh
dilemma that the algorithm faces when
deciding what content you should be
shown. And it can't show us everything.
Like that is literally impossible. With
the average number of people that we
follow, with the average number of posts
that those people are making a day, we
would have to spend way too many hours,
more than 24 hours a day on Instagram to
get through just all of the posts from
the people we follow. And also think
about how not engaging that would be.
Like think about all of the people you
follow who they made a bad post today
that's not actually that interesting or
they made a post uh that was like a
promotion or sale for a product that you
didn't want to buy. But if you only saw
the post from only the people you follow
and only in chronological order then you
would have to see that. And so I know
it's frustrating again like Adam said
like I've said numerous times the
algorithm is flawed. It is imperfect.
But that's basically why recommendations
are necessary on Instagram and really on
all social media. I just think the
reason that so many of us get frustrated
by this is on YouTube, we don't have a
background of following our friends,
right? We follow YouTube creators whose
videos we enjoy. On Tik Tok, we follow
Tik Tok creators whose videos we enjoy.
And since the inception of Tik Tok, it
has been all about the FYP, all about
the for you page where it's just
constant recommendation after
recommendation, and we're hardly seeing
our friends posts. But a lot of us
joined Instagram 10 years ago, even 5
years ago when the environment was
different, when the the norms were
slightly different than they are today
and where our friends were posting more
and we were used to consuming more of
our friends posts. And so of course
that's changed over time and change is
hard, change is weird, change is
challenging and so yeah, that's why it's
more frustrating on Instagram and maybe
even more apparent on Instagram than on
any other platform. Andreas Rucker on
YouTube asked, "What's the length of
video to be considered long form versus
short form specifically on Instagram?"
And they've talked about this.
Basically, if a video is longer than 3
minutes, which is longer than the
current length that you can make a real,
that would be considered long form, and
that would be less likely to be
recommended. If it's under 3 minutes,
it's considered short form. It's
considered a real and it is eligible to
be recommended. Seawolf 1330 on YouTube
asked about Instagram jail. And they
basically said, "If I'm in Instagram
jail, should I start a new account or
should I keep going with my existing
one?" First of all, I want to understand
what exactly this person means by
Instagram jail because it's kind of a
term that's loosely thrown around
nowadays. There is not an actual thing
that is Instagram jail or that is the
200 view jail. These are just terms that
are used to describe when you can't seem
to get more than 200 views or when you
can't seem to grow despite your best
efforts, but there's not an actual jail.
Like there's not an actual like group of
people who Instagram is not going to
show your posts unless you have
literally had content violations. And
again, that would be visible in your
account status. But if that's not you,
then no, you're not in Instagram jail.
And I would not recommend starting a new
account. However, if you have been, you
know, putting your best foot forward and
you've been creating great content and
you've been doing everything right, so
to speak, and it's been months and
months and months and you're just not
growing, you're going backwards, you
might want to consider starting a new
account. I'll link up a previous episode
that we've done down in the show notes
um about this topic. And I I give kind
of like some criteria that you should
consider when deciding to start over or
not. Uh but it's again, it's not always
like a black and white yes or no answer.
JBZ Rugs brought up the topic of
hashtags and SEO. And what he said is
him saying hashtags aren't important,
but he's trying to focus on SEO is the
most backwards talking point ever.
Wouldn't SEO be more accurate if the
user literally helps it out by using
specific hashtags for its intended
viewers? Yes, in the past, and we have
talked about hashtags already today, so
I'm not going to harp on this too much,
but essentially the algorithm is so good
now that it does not need us to tell it
what the post is about through hashtags.
And many people who were using hashtags
were abusing hashtags and using them to
maximize their views rather than to just
describe what the post was about. And so
Instagram wants to level the playing
field essentially and make it more fair
for everyone by restricting those of us
who are trying to essentially take
advantage of hashtags. All right, and
the final topic I wanted to address
today comes from Stephanie Roberts and
she says, "Great interview." Thank you,
by the way. She says, "Instagram used to
be fun. Now it feels like we're being
dragged along in a competition against
all the other players. I loved it when
Instagram just was what it was and it
innovated in its own way." I understand.
I totally sympathize with how you feel.
Instagram back in the day, like I
remember Instagram 2013 and how fun it
was and it was just like this small
little community of you and all your
friends and you all posted. Um, and I
definitely think that there's some
nostalgia there, right, where we always
remember that the grass is always
greener and we remember the good times
and forget the bad. Um, but I definitely
agree like there were some things back
in the day that were just more fun and
less competitive. But this is the
reality of the attention economy that we
live in. This is the reality of, hey, we
have a free social media platform. And
yes, Instagram is still free to use.
YouTube, Tik Tok, they're still free to
use. And they're free to use to get
hundreds of thousands or millions of
views. That can be life-changing for a
small business or a content creator. And
so, yeah, I recognize that for the
average consumer, it might not be as
fun. I would also say for the average
consumer, you might be getting more
engaging, better content nowadays than
you were back in 2013. you might not be
seeing your friends as much, but maybe
the content nowadays is, you know,
better production value or whatnot, more
thought going into it and whatnot. And
so, I recognize that it might not be as
fun. Um, but I think that the
opportunity for small businesses and
content creators to grow and have
success and build brands and businesses
on Instagram is still there. And in many
cases, it might be there better today
than it ever was before. I think that
the barrier to creating really good
content is lower than it's ever been
before. I think that the potential to go
viral is higher than maybe almost any
time in history. And so I think that
there are plenty of of opportunities
left to be had, plenty of successes,
plenty of wins, plenty of views and
followers left to be gained. But the
reality is we are in the attention
economy and nothing is more valuable
than your attention. And so with
everyone starting to recognize that
we're all competing for everyone else's
attention and yeah, it's a more
competitive environment. So I
understand. But with all that being
said, I want to thank you for listening
to the interview. Thank you for
listening to me today. I want to
encourage you to subscribe if you
haven't already. And as always, happy
networking.